---
layout: post
title: "It"
image: 'https://res.cloudinary.com/how-dare-you-review/image/upload/c_fill,h_399,w_760/v1529185355/it-review-15.jpg'
description: It felt like a dark adventure/mystery/coming of age film with suspense sprinkled all over.
category: 'scary'
tags: 
- scary
- horror
- Finn Wolfhard
- Bill Skarsgård
- clowns
- Jaeden Lieberher
twitter_text: It felt like a dark adventure/mystery/coming of age film with suspense sprinkled all over.
introduction: It felt like a dark adventure/mystery/coming of age film with suspense sprinkled all over.
author: Kleon Van
score: 87
---

IT was one of the oldest movies I remember watching as a kid that terrified me (along with Child's Play -- Fuck Chucky). As an adult, it felt right to try to see the remake and sort of, quell those old terrors. So that's what I did. 

And....

I really enjoyed it! It wasn't completely a horror movie, which wasn't a bad route to go to. It felt like a dark adventure/mystery/coming of age film with suspense sprinkled all over. Don't get me wrong, there were scary (read: CREEPY AS FUCK) parts, but I felt like it was more of a journey than anything. 


Likes:
The cast was great! Kids spoke like kids and while somethings felt forced (there were a ton of momma jokes), the dialogue didn't seem fake at all. Special shout out to the actors who played Billy, Beverly, and Richie.
While there a lot of tense scenes, the kids' quips were funny and didn't let the tone of the movie get stale. Richie especially.
Camera work was great. Some of the shots were at an angle and it really helped with the uneasiness vibe the movie was giving
-           
Dislikes:
Some of the quips felt too abrupt
Hopefully they expand more in the next one, but I was really interested in IT's lore and they didn't get into it too much in this film
Bev's dad. Holy shit was he a creeper
That dead-ass, crooked stare IT had was hard to look at. Apparently the actor, Bill Skarsgard can do it at will.


Other thoughts:
Super pumped for the sequel. I wonder what kind of casting they'll do.
I still hate clowns
I'll restate again, but this movie was CREEPY. Soundtrack did a great job of setting the tone
Really wanted Billy to get one last hit on Pennywise at the end, but oh well. 
It's nice to get a different kind of movie in rotation for Movie Tuesdays.

Memorable Quotes (mostly Archie):
"You punched me, made me walk through shitty water, dragged me through a crackhouse... and now I'm gonna have to kill this fucking clown." - Archie
"This town used to be a beaver trapping camp" "It still is boys, am I right??" - again, Archie
"Do you need to be a virgin to see this fuckin' clown?" - ARCHIEEEE 
"I need my bifocals. They're in my second fanny pack" - Eddie
